# EBS (Elastic Block Store)

- An EBS volume is a network drive you can attach to your instances while they run.
- It allows your instances to persist data, even after their termination.
- They can only be mounted to one instance at a time (at the CCP level).
- `They are bound to a specific availability zone.`
- Free tier - 30 GB of free EBS storage of type General Purpose (SSD) or Magnetic per month.

## EBS Volume

- It's a network drive (ie. Not a physical drive)
  - It uses the network to communicate the instance, which means there might be a bit of latency.
  - It can be detached from an EC2 instance and attached to another one quickly.
- It's locked to an Availability Zone (AZ)
  - An EBS volume in us-east-la cannot be attached to us-east-lb.
  - To move a volume across, you first need to snapshot it.
- Have a provisioned capacity (size in GBs and IOPs)
  - You get billed for all the provisioned capacity
  - You can increase the capacity of the drive over time.

## EBS Snapshots

- make a backup (snapshot) of our EBS volume at a point in time
- Not necessary to detach volume to do snapshot, but recommended
- Can copy snapshots across AZ or Region
- EBS snapshot archive
  - Move a snapshot to an "archive tier" that is 75%cheaper
  - Takes within 24 to 72 hours for restoring the archive
- Recycle Bin for EBS Snapshot
  - Setup rules to retain deleted snapshots so you can recover them afer an accidental deletion.
  - Specify retention (from 1 day to 1 year.)
- Fast snapshot Restore (FSR)
  - Force full initialization of snapshot to have no latency on the first use ($$$)

## AMI

- Amazon Machine Image
- are a customization of an EC2 instance
  - We can add our own software, os, configuration, monitoring, etc/
  - Faster boot/configuration time as all our software is pre-packaged.
- AMI are built for a specific region (and can be copied across regions)
- We can launch EC2 instances from,
  - A public AMI: AWS provided
  - Our Own AMI: we make and maintain ourself
  - An AWS Market place AMI: an AMI someone else mad (and potentially sells)

### AMI Process

    - Start an EC2 instance and customize it
    - Stop the instance (for data integrity)
    - Build an AMI - this will also  create EBS Snapshots.
    - Launch instances from other AMI
